# The tokenization process of financial instruments: an empirical analysis for securities
[Grade 4/4]

This thesis investigates the effect that tokenized securities could have on financial markets. This paper starts by looking at the existing literature on the process of tokenization, carefully examining its potential benefits, such as enhanced liquidity and financial inclusion, and drawbacks, including the lack of a consistent regulatory framework and the risks of cybersecurity hacks. Since the related literature, especially the one regarding securities, is still emerging, this study mainly evaluates prior research on the impact of tokenized cash instead (in particular, Stablecoins). The review brings interesting insights about the influence that cash tokens have on liquidity, which is seen to be increased. Therefore, we address one main research hypothesis, which is formulated as follows: “The tokenization of securities significantly influences the liquidity metrics of the financial market.” Thus, we present our research methodology and analyze whether the same that happens with cash tokens would potentially occur with the advent of tokenized securities. Through a linear regression model, we verify that the coefficient of the variable proxy for tokenization is both positive and statistically significant. Through the gradient boosting and random forest regression models, we observe that the feature of tokenization plays a significant role in determining the liquidity metric, confirming once again our initial hypothesis that the tokenization of securities would improve liquidity in the financial market. Therefore, our findings emphasize that the tokenization of financial instruments, and specifically that of securities, has the potential to radically transform the current state of the financial sector. This thesis contributes to a better understanding of the potential outcomes of the tokenization process.
